A scholar Eve Tuck urges researchers to move away from what she calls “damage­based research,” or “research that operates, even benevolently, from a theory of change that establishes harm or injury in order to achieve reparation.” Citing studies in education that sought to increase resources for marginalized youths by documenting the “illiteracies” of indigenous youths and youths of color, Tuck explains that damage­based research is a popular mechanism by which “pain and loss are documented in order to obtain particular political or material gains.” While damage­based studies have proven successful in attaining political or material gains in the form of funding, attention, and increased awareness related to the struggles of marginalized communities, Tuck points researchers to the ongoing violence damage­based research inflicts on marginalized communities, even under benevolent or perceivably beneficial circumstances. Among the many issues associated with damage­based research are the underlying assumptions this type of work makes and sustains about marginalized people; namely, that marginalized communities lack communication, civility, intellect, desires, assets, innovation, and ethics.



The relevance of science in understanding organizational behavior can start with asking this question: Why do good managers make bad decisions? Too often managers make mistakes when it comes to fostering conditions that inspire positive outcomes in the workplace, such as performance, satisfaction, team cohesion, and ethical behavior. Why does this happen? Part of the reason is that rather than relying on a clearly validated set of scientific discoveries, managers use less reliable sources of insight such as gut feel, intuition, the latest trend, what a highly paid consultant might say, or what is being done in another company. Like most of us, managers tend to rely on their own strengths and experiences when making choices about how to get the best from others. But what works for one manager may not work for another. In the absence of a scientific approach, managers tend to make mistakes, offer ill­conceived incentives, misinterpret employee behavior, and fail to account for the many possible explanations for why employees might perform poorly.